Now, you'll notice that for a lot of this,
we touched on styles when I
answered a question before.
But for a lot of this,
we've been manually typing in stuff.
And that, generally speaking,
has worked as we've been figuring out
some of the concepts around layout.
But generally speaking,
in the same way that we want to be able
to reuse code in various places,
it would be nice if we could
reuse some of our styling and
various places as well, right?
Cuz you can imagine right now, I've been
pretty easygoing on the colors, right?
But if I needed to change all of
the buttons from one color to another,
from blue to a more different blue,
then that would be very tedious.
And so there are two major kinds of ways
of sharing values across Figma.
There used to be one and
now there are two, and
it's kinda like a weird Venn diagram,
right?
So you used to just have
this idea of styles.
And as we saw with the layout grids
before, we had a layout grid style.
We hit Save, and was then a layout grid
that we could use multiple places.
You can do that for colors,
you can do that for typography.
You can do that for
effects like box-shadow.
I think those are the four, right?
We will also later on
talk about variables.
Variables, you can store strings, and
numbers, and Booleans, and colors, right?
You'll notice that there's
a little overlap there.
Variables are in beta, and so
they don't support things like
typography which is another thing
that styles currently do, right?
But they will eventually support
stuff like typography as well.
There are more features that
will come to variables as well.
So there is some overlap.
And one of the things to think about and
as we kinda go through both
of these is that a variable normally
holds one value, a given color.
A style can be a linear gradient or
multiple color values, so on and so forth.
Variables have some other features.
Where it gets a little tricky or
two is variables are great and
wonderful for a number of reasons,
but they're also a new ish.
Means that a lot of times a lot of
the tooling is built around styles, right?
And so which use one is both a nuance that
we will talk about, but also slightly
moving target since more features will
come to variables so on and so forth.
But we'll kinda talk about each of
them and kinda get a little more
concreteness around this vague
notion of they have some overlap and
when to use each and the trade-offs
as we actually see them in practice.
But kinda to initially see that there
are two concepts that have some amount of
overlap.
They are different and kinda the same.
Simultaneously, we will dig into it,
but let's start with styles.
And for our purposes,
we'll use variables where we can.
Presently, you cannot use them at all
in anything involving typography.
There are a number of variables.
Can you use that as a font size?
No, you can't, right?
There's just not an option
to use in typography.
They will eventually be.
So maybe if you're watching this later,
they are and
seems like If I'm wrong, but
I was right when I said the words.
That's how recordings work, right?
Cool, so
there's a bunch of reasons why we can and
might want to create a bunch of styles.
One of them is stuff like typography.
We can joke about changing a button
color from one thing to the other.
But having a known set of,
this is the typeface we use in our app and
this is the font size and
the weight of it, right,
that becomes something you one,
as the receiving end as a developer,
do not want a whole bunch of random fonts,
right?
And then two, as a designer,
you'd like to be able to just say,
hey, here's the style for a heading.
And then if you wanna change the line
height across all of the headings
throughout all of your designs,
you can do that.
So there's both advantages for the
designer, and then all things that help
designers become more consistent
help us implementing them as well.
So let's go kinda take a look.
So one of the things you could do is
you can literally just take some text.
And we say, Some Text, and
you can change the font
with font that we like.
Papyrus, I agree.
Great, and there's no bold Papyrus?
Today, I learned.
Let's make it size 48.
Sure, all these seem fine.
And so let's say I'm like,
this is our brand, right?
This is absolutely what I
want everything we do to
look like as we go forward
with our new company logo.
And so what you can do is once you have
your text all the way that you'd like it,
you can go ahead and you hit those little,
I don't know, something, and
you can hit this plus sign.
You can say, New Company Logo,
Please pay me a lot of money.
And now, at any given point,
we can style any piece of texts,
have it be Papyrus in size 48.
Apparently, not bold cuz there was no bold
papyrus, which we all learned together and
apply to anything.
So I can go ahead and
it will use the last font that you use.
So let's go fo something else instead.
And I can go take this, and
I can say, you know what?
I would like to make
this a new company logo.
And then should we go ahead and
decide that we wanna tweak the new
company logo to, what's the most
ridiculous found, this is terrible.
You can see that they all
change to the new company logo.
Now, that is great for
setting up a typography system and
then your designers and
you can then use those everywhere.
There are some questions about,
how does one do this in bulk, right?
So for instance, over here,
I have stolen basically
all of the classes or
fonts in Tailwind, right?
So they have everything from extra
small to small to base to large to
extra large up to nine, XL, and
then basically you have all
the different font weights, right?
And so let's say that, okay,
these happen, I think they are what font?
Source Sans Pro, right?
And so I swear if I get one
more design where it's some
random size 57 font,
I'm gonna lose it, right?
So in this case, by giving them styles
that match to what we have in our
CSS classes, we can hopefully
keep everyone on the same page.
But if you think you
are going to hand this
list to anyone and,
I guess whether they're
nine font weights across nine Excels.
No one's doing 9 times 14 or whatever
it is and making those by hand, right?
And that's why sometimes you don't have
a lot of these styles and designs.
Now, I think it's Larry Wall,
who's Creative Perl and
one of his famous lines, the traits of
a great programmer are laziness, and
patience, and hubris, right, and
we tend to like to automate things.
So there are a whole bunch
of useful plugins for
creating styles and a type system.
The one that I use so much that I somehow
managed to list it twice in here,
cuz it's my favorite is this
one called Styler, right?
And so let's go in here and get rid of
that other library that was in here so
that I have no real dtyles around.
What you can do with Styler is
basically take a whole bunch
of selected layers and
bulk create styles, right?
There are some caveats.
One is it will use the name of
the layer to name the style,
cuz what else is it supposed to use,
right?
Two, Figma has a very loose
definition of organization hierarchy,
which is if you name thing with slash, it
will group those things together, right?
So these are named like this for
a reason, which is that this'll then take
all the font, thin, extra light,
regular, normal, medium, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, and
it'll group them all under text nine xl.
And again, these effectively
are named after the Tailwind.
If you don't use Tailwind,
name it whatever you use.
Name it heading, prose,
I don't care, right?
I happen to use Tailwind at work and
I didn't feel like coming up with
a new naming convention, honestly.
So the caveats here is that, one,
the layer should be named after
whatever you want the style to be.
By default, for text,
Figma gives the layer name the content.
So that's why also that just makes sense,
right?
And so it has to be named if
you want the styles to be, and
it has to be styled
like you want it to be.
And what it'll do is it'll look
at all the layers you selected.
It'll look at their styling properties,
create styles named after the layer.
That's a lot of words that could be much
more easily solved by just showing you,
right?
So I'm gonna do this in the sidebar, cuz
it's just easier cuz I think I can hold
Shift and just go all the way to the
bottom of my, however, many font faces.
Now, as we're not talking about the
implementation of a design system today,
I would say that maybe you
don't need all of these.
Hypothetically, maybe you and
the design team sit down and
you pick [LAUGH] a subset of these
that you actually plan on using.
Because for both engineers,
we're all like,
this is why you got to limit the number
of icons and stuff like that.
Engineers will just grab every random
spacing class, and designers will too.
We're both also broken in the same ways.
We can select all of them and then we
can go up here, and you don't need to
necessarily have a given plugin installed,
you can just run them kinda on the fly.
So we're gonna look for
Styler and we're gonna run it.
And the one that we want right
now is generate styles, right?
And you can see it runs,
and it created 116.
So we got an answer on how many, I guess
maybe, it's 170 cuz that one was updated.
We'll go ahead and create them now.
If we go into local styles,
you can see that under text-xs.
We've got a whole bunch of font weights,
and
these are all of in the font that
we want for our design system.
I picked Source Code Pro.
It was the first non-ugly one I
saw when I was scrolling through.
We use Enter, which is the default
Figma ones that felt not fun, and
you might use a different one for
headings.
You can do whatever you want here.
And so it went ahead and
it created all of those styles for me.
So now, I have a consistent
typography system all in place,
and that works for fonts.
It will work also for
colors and anything else.
One thing to point out is,
let's say you had all these fonts, but
they were not named with the slash or
whatever you wanted in order to name it.
Figma has a really, do not go
through 117 of these, 116 of these,
whatever, and name them one by one.
Again, we are lazy and it is our virtue.
So what we wanna do,
as you can select all of them or
any given one, and
you can always hit Cmd+R or Ctrl+R,
I'm guessing, and
you can do a bulk rename.
Great things about bulk rename is one,
you can bulk rename things.
Two, you can bulk rename things with
a number that either goes up or down.
Again, we use Tailwind at Temporal,
you don't have to,
you can do whatever you want.
There's nothing Tailwind specific other
than the fact that I didn't wanna come up
with new names for things, which for
colors it's 50, 100, 200, 300, and 400.
So I can select them and
then have a number that's going
up with two zeros at the end.
To get that 100, 200, 300, 400 by saying
number ascending or number descending,
you can take the current name and
prefix it or suffix it.
So if these did not have the /text 9xl,
I could grab the first nine of them or
whatever, prefix it.
The other part is regex, right?
And so you can also If so use at least
the match part of regular expression,
I think you can do a full regex in here.
I've done horrible things in this box
that I blocked out of my memory, but
I think you can write full regex in here.
If not, click learn more and
figure it out.
So if I wanna change all the font dash to
something else, let's do font dash and
let's change it to typography,
maybe I can spell.
Okay, and so
that will rename all the layers.
It didn't rename the content,
but life's hard.
But it did rename it here.
And the cool thing is if I run Styler
again through some magic of annotations,
knew that they already existed and
just renamed them, right?
And so I didn't create duplicate ones and
have to delete it, so on and so forth.
And so now, if I go in here,
they are all typography, whatever.
If I wanted to not have them
all in a different hierarchy,
I could get rid of that slash, they would
not be in those kinds of subdirectories.
You could use seven slashes, but
Figma is only gonna really help
you out with like the first one.
It kinda knows that there's grandchildren,
but
it doesn't really display
in any useful way.
So staying to one level of hierarchy
is about all you're gonna need to get
away with.
So yeah, theoretically, I think that
Tailwind, because it's general purpose,
needs all of these fonts.
But one of things we did in our code base
is start to shrink the surface area.
Cuz you know what happens
when we have 116 fonts,
we used not 116, but
more than we needed to.
So having a smaller set
definitely behooves you.
But for what works for the biggest number
also works for the smallest number.
Styler is great if there is
an existing typography system.
So for our website and stuff,
there's a much smaller set of fonts that
we use that the design team came
up with on their own first, right?
Perfect, and so
you can take that smaller set and
just generate the styles based on that.
And I will show you in a second where
this gets really interesting for us.
I'm gonna show you right now.